Extended roadmap section (#121)
cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve: draft-irtf-cfrg-hash-to-curve.md

finite field F. An elliptic curve equation takes one of several standard forms,
including (but not limited to) Weierstrass, Montgomery, and Edwards.

> The curve E forms an algebraic group, whose elements are the

Reviewer: nit: no need for comma before "whose"

points (x, y) satisfying the curve equation, where x and y are elements of F.
This group has order n, meaning that there are n distinct points.

For security reasons, groups of prime order MUST be used. Elliptic curves
induce subgroups of prime order. Let G be a subgroup of the curve of prime
order r, where n = h * r.
In this equation, h is an integer called the cofactor.
The process of mapping an elliptic curve point to a point in G is

> called clearing the cofactor, this operation is described in {{cofactor-clearing}}.

Reviewer: nit: comma splice. I suggest either changing the comma to semicolon, or changing to a period and making "This operation..." a new sentence.

finite field F. An elliptic curve equation takes one of several standard forms,
including (but not limited to) Weierstrass, Montgomery, and Edwards.

> The curve E forms an algebraic group, denoted as E(F), whose elements are the

Reviewer 2: +1 to this proposal.

points (x, y) satisfying the curve equation, where x and y are elements of F.
This group has order n, meaning that there are n distinct points.

> In general, security of cryptographic primitives requires a group G of

Reviewer 2: @kwantam does it refer to the generator in the related work? If so, perhaps we could unify around `P` (or whatever we use in the rest of the document)?

> In general, security of cryptographic primitives requires a group G of

Author: My reasoning to introduce G is because for a suite for pairing curves will refer to the same curve but different subgroups, say G1 and G2. 

I ack that, In some cases, it is more convenient to use only one character, and in others, a verbose text is better. However, G is a general letter used for groups, and we are proposing a way to hashing into a group. 

Finally, G also clashes with generator of curves, but in this draft no generators are used.

> In general, security of cryptographic primitives requires a group G of

Reviewer: You're right, it does make sense to use G, G1, G2 as you describe. :+1:

There is one conflicting use of `G` as a generator in the relwork section on the master branch. Also, the commit 1de5f6ebba134de9584e0d2fe8954ecd88a0e4ab introduced a conflict with the master branch, because it edits the "Try-And-Increment" appendix, which #122 removed.

It should be a quick fix to remove that piece of the commit (it's the very last line of the diff). @armfazh, when you fix the conflict, can you please at the same time rebase onto master and rename `G` to `P` in the relwork section? The only occurrence is in the second-last paragraph (the one that starts "Brier et al. ...")

prime order. However, not all elliptic curves induce groups of prime order.
Because of that, G is usually taken as a subgroup of E(F) in such a way that G
has prime order r, where n = h * r. In this equation, h is an integer known as
the cofactor.
The process of mapping to an elliptic curve point to a point belonging to a
subgroup of order r is called clearing the cofactor. We discuss this process
in {{cofactor-clearing}}.

Certain encoding functions restrict the form of the curve equation, the
characteristic of the field, and/or the parameters of the curve. For each
encoding, this document lists the relevant restrictions.

Summary of quantities:

| Symbol | Meaning | Relevance |
|:------:|---------|-----------|
| F,q,p | Finite field F of characteristic p and #F=q=p^m. | For prime fields, q=p; otherwise, q=p^m and m>1. |
| E | Elliptic curve. | E is specified by an equation and a field F. |
| E(F) | The group of points induced by E. | A set of points with coordinates (x,y) satisfying the elliptic curve equation. |
| n | Number of points on E(F), #E(F)=n. | This value could be prime or composite. |

> | G | A group of r points. | A subgroup of E(F). |

Reviewer 2: Or perhaps replace `A subgroup of E(F).` with `A prime-order subgroup of the curve`?

> | r | Order of G. | This value is a prime number. |

Author: I am not entirely sure if r always matches with the largest subgroup. It seems to be true. But let's double check in the case of pairing curves.

> | r | Order of G. | This value is a prime number. |

Reviewer: Great point! You're totally right that for the "big" group on pairing-friendly curves, r isn't the largest prime factor. Nice catch :+1:

> | h | Cofactor, h>=1. | This is an integer number satisfying n = h * r.  |

Reviewer 2: nit: `h>=1` -> `h >= 1`

the term "hashing to the curve", i.e., encoding bitstrings to points on an
elliptic curve.

One can easily construct a hash to curve function h(x) by using the output of a
cryptographically secure hash function H as the input of an encoding function.
On the one hand, h(x) is difficult to invert since it is computationally
intractable to produce an input x that maps to h(x) due to H is pre-image
resistant.
On the other hand, the uniformity property is not met as the output of an
encoding is distinguishable from a random distribution. Hence, using
h(x) is not sufficient to get uniformity and cannot be used as a random oracle.

Brier et al. {{BCIMRT10}} describe two generic constructions that give a
hash function approximating a random oracle. Farashahi et al. {{FFSTV13}}
and Tibouchi and Kim {{TK17}} refine this analysis. In particular, Farashahi
et al. show that summing two independent evaluations of an injective encoding
suffices to approximate a random oracle to an elliptic curve. This construction
is given in {{roadmap}}.

# Roadmap {#roadmap}

A general framework for mapping bit strings into points of an elliptic curve is

> presented. The construction of these mappings relies on three basic functions.

Reviewer: Nit: passive voice in first sentence. Maybe:

This section presents a general framework for mapping bit strings into points on an elliptic curve. To construct these mappings, we rely on three basic functions:

> -   The function hash2base, {0, 1}^* -> F, maps arbitrary-length bit strings

Reviewer: tiny nit: escape * with backslash ("*" => "\*"). Otherwise there is ambiguity about whether this * starts an italicized section.

    to elements of a finite field; its implementation is defined in
    {{hashtobase}}.

-   The function map2curve, F -> E, calculates a point on the elliptic curve E
    from an element of a finite field. {{encodings}} describes mappings for a
    range of curve families.

-   The function clear\_cofactor, E -> G, maps any point on the curve E to a
    subgroup G of the curve. {{cofactor-clearing}} describes methods to perform
    this operation.

Two top-level functions taking as input a bit string and returning points on
the curve are introduced. Although these functions have the same interface, the
distribution of the points they produce are different. The first function is

> called injective encoding and its probability distribution of the points can be

Reviewer: nit: called *an* injective encoding

easily distinguished from a uniform distribution of points on the curve. The

> second function behaves as a hash function since its output is

Reviewer: Here I think "hash function" is confusing, because not all hash functions can be modeled as random oracles. Certainly collision resistance doesn't imply usability as a PRF, for example.

Maybe "behaves as a random oracle, since its output" instead?

indistinguishable from a uniform distribution of the points on the curve.

> -   Injective encodings. A bit string is mapped to a point in G, however,

Reviewer: "encodings" -> "encoding"

Also, suggest active voice in the next sentence: "This function maps bit strings to points in G. Note that the distribution of the output is not uniform."

    the distribution of its output is not uniform.

    ~~~
    encode2curve(alpha)

    Input: alpha, an arbitrary-length bit string.
    Output: P, a point in G.

    Steps:
    1. u = hash2base(alpha, 0)
    2. Q = map2curve(u)
    3. P = clear_cofactor(Q)
    4. return P
    ~~~

-   Random Oracle. This function yields a uniform distribution and can be used

>     as a random oracle from strings to points on the curve. Where appropriate,

Reviewer: I'd make this sentence mirror the one above: "This function maps bit strings to points in G that are indistinguishable from uniformly random."

"Can be used as a random oracle" is redundant with the immediately preceding label, "Random Oracle," so I think it should be removed.

    the terms random oracle and hash functions for such mappings are used

>     interchangeably.

Reviewer: If we're going to use the terminology this way, the above sentence should appear earlier. But my preference would be to remove this sentence and just be careful to say "random oracle" in the text.

cryptographically secure hash function H as the input of an encoding function.
On the one hand, h(x) is difficult to invert since it is computationally
intractable to produce an input x that maps to h(x) due to H is pre-image
resistant.
On the other hand, the uniformity property is not met as the output of an
encoding is distinguishable from a random distribution. Hence, using
h(x) is not sufficient to get uniformity and cannot be used as a random oracle.

Brier et al. {{BCIMRT10}} describe two generic constructions that give a
hash function approximating a random oracle. Farashahi et al. {{FFSTV13}}
and Tibouchi and Kim {{TK17}} refine this analysis. In particular, Farashahi
et al. show that summing two independent evaluations of any of the
deterministic endings of {{encodings}} suffices to approximate a random
oracle to an elliptic curve. In other words:

~~~
   h(x) = f(H0(x)) + f(H1(x))
~~~

where f: F -> E(F) is a deterministic encoding, H0 and H1 are hash
functions (modeled as random oracles) mapping strings to elements of F, and the
addition operation corresponds to point addition on the target elliptic curve.

> # Roadmap on Hash to Curve. {#roadmap}

Reviewer 2: nit: no trailing period needed

The following functions provide a general framework for mapping bit

> strings into points of a prime group G.

Reviewer 2: We should expand on this a bit and more clearly highlight the differences between encoding and hashing to the curve. Perhaps:

```
A mapping can either yield a uniform distribution over the range of points on the curve or not. A mapping that does not yield a uniform distribution is an injective encoding. Example algorithms include Elligator2, wherein the algorithm maps input strings to approximately half of the points on the curve. A mapping that yields a uniform distribution is, effectively, a random oracle from strings to points on the curve. Where appropriate, we use the terms random oracle and hash functions for such mappings interchangeably.```

Reviewer: Also, to Chris's point: the first paragraph of the section should introduce (or re-introduce) the high-level concepts before jumping into the low-level details.

Maybe the right way to do this is to add a new paragraph before what's currently here that tells the reader what's ahead:

- high level: three pieces (hash2base, map2curve, clear_h)
- the following sections define each piece in detail
- {{term-rom}} discussed two possibilities: injective mapping vs random oracle

etc

 - Injective encodings. A bit string is mapped to a point in G, however,
   the distribution of this function is not uniform.

> 

Reviewer: The two functions below use a bunch of notation that's not defined (hash2base? map2curve? etc). Readers will be confused by use-before-def.

There should be a sentence here introducing these function names and forward reffing to the sections that describe each.

   ~~~

>    h2cInjective(alpha)

Reviewer 2: I don't think the name should be prefixed with `h2c`, since it lacks the uniform property. Maybe `encode2curve`, or something similar?

   Input: alpha, an arbitrary-length bit string.

>    Output: P, a point in the group G.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to specify the point representation? Or should we leave a comment saying that the representation depends on the implementation of the internal `map2curve` function?

Reviewer: I'd say not in this section. High-level concepts here, low-level details elsewhere. But probably a forward ref to such discussion would be useful.

   Steps:
   1. u = hash2base(alpha, I2OSP(0, 1)) // {0,1}* -> F   

>    2. Q = map2curve(u)                  //   F    -> E(F)

Reviewer: suggest "E(F)" -> "point on E"

Author: The arrow notation must be used between sets.

Indeed, I tried all of these suggestions, but the text looked ugly. I decided to remove those comments and included the arrow notation in the description of the functions. Hope be more legible now.

>    3. P = clearCofactor(Q)              //  E(F)  -> G   

Reviewer 2: Naming related: this should probably be `clear_cofactor` to be consistent with other symbol names.

Reviewer 2: Agreed!

>    3. P = clearCofactor(Q)              //  E(F)  -> G   

Reviewer: suggest "G" -> "point on E in prime-order subgroup"

>    4. Output P

Reviewer: "Output" -> "return" (used everywhere else; note case)

Author: I like this change.

   ~~~

 - Random Oracle. Unlike injective encodings, this function can be used as a
   random oracle of points.

   ~~~

>    h2cRandomOracle(alpha)

Reviewer 2: I think this should just be `hash2curve`. No need to include "RandomOracle" in the name.

   Input: alpha, an arbitrary-length bit string.
   Output: P, a point in the group G.

   Steps:

>    1. u0 = hash2base(alpha, I2OSP(0, 1))  //    {0,1}*   -> F   

Reviewer: `{0,1}*` is written everywhere else as `{0, 1}^*` (note space between comma and 1, "^" symbol)

Same comment applies on the next line, and in step 1 of the prior function

   2. u1 = hash2base(alpha, I2OSP(1, 1))  //    {0,1}*   -> F   
   3. Q0 = map2curve(u0)                  //      F      -> E(F)
   4. Q1 = map2curve(u1)                  //      F      -> E(F)

>    5. R = Q0 + Q1                         // E(F) x E(F) -> E(F)

Reviewer: suggest (prior three lines):

"E(F) x E(F)" -> "two points on E". Cartesian product notation isn't necessarily familiar to all readers.

"E(F)" -> "point on E"

>    6. P = clearCofactor(R)                //     E(F)    -> G   

Reviewer: suggest: as above

   7. Output P
   ~~~

The pieces used for constructing these functions hold particular properties,

> which are described in the subsequent sections. First, {{utility}} introduces

Reviewer: The first sentence of this paragraph is confusing because it makes the reader feel like they're missing something (what properties?). I would get rid of it.

The rest of this paragraph should go *above* the function definitions (I left another comment there) so that hash2base etc are not used before def.

Author: I did not  understand entirely your comment, but let me know if the new version improves what you was pointing out.

Reviewer: Yes, these edits almost totally take care of my concerns :+1:

some utility functions that are used across the document. {{hashtobase}}
describes the hash2base function. Due to the diversity of elliptic curve models
there exist several ways construct points from a field elements. Some
possible choices are described in {{encodings}}. Similarly, clearing the
cofactor is particular to the group G, and this is discussed in {{cofactor-clearing}}.

> 

Reviewer: Comments on the above paragraph:

- Each sentence should name a function (hash2base, etc) and give a brief idea of what that function does, then forward ref to the correct section.

- The sentence that starts "Due to the diversity..." isn't necessary here, and "Some possible choices" hedges too much and simultaneously makes the reader feel nervous that they're going to have to make a bunch of decisions.
Instead, maybe something like

    The map2curve function depends on the target elliptic curve. {{encodings}} describes mappings for a range of curve families.

- Maybe: "The function clear_h maps any point on E to a point in the subgroup of prime order r ({{bg-curves}}); it is described in {{cofactor-clearing}}." (No need for G.)

> {{suites}} of this document provides a list of suites for hashing to curve.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{suites}} of this document provides a list of suites for hash2curve algorithms.
```

Reviewer: Also, "provides a list of" -> "defines"

> Each suite can be considered as a full set of parameters and algorithms required

Reviewer 2: It occurs to me that there are no suites for injective encodings. Should we add some?

Reviewer: Stashed a note about injective encodings suites in #126.

> to instantiate a specific hash2curve mapping for a given group G of interest.

Reviewer: "required to instantiate ... of interest" -> "for standard elliptic curves."

19.   y = CMOV(t4, t3, e3)   // if e2 == True, y = t3, else y = t4
20.  e4 = sgn0(u) == sgn0(y)
21.   y = CMOV(-y, y, e4)

> 22. Output (x, y)

Reviewer: nit: "Output" -> "return" for consistency?

Author: good catch

4.3   attempted_hash = Hash(msg || CTR)
4.4   h = RS2ECP(attempted_hash)
4.5   If h is not "INVALID" and cofactor > 1, set h = h * cofactor

> 5. return h

Reviewer: NOTE: this edit is causing the conflict with master. I suggest removing this edit and then rebasing onto master.

Reviewer: Also, ~20 lines above this point is where `G` is used as a point, and probably should be changed to `P`.

Reviewer: This is the only remaining issue: in the Related Work appendix, there are 5 uses of the symbol `G` to mean a point that generates a prime-order subgroup. I suggest changing these to `P`.
